# The Machine and the All

Since Hegel, we had the idea that everything is rational. This kind of thinking can be dubbed "pre Gödel", or even "pre Gauss", since it understands rationality as a narrow slice of what math (expanded rationality) really is. It takes math to be complete, unambiguous and comprehensible (by a machine if not by a human). It takes the Universe to be a computability problem. 

We already know this is not true. Gauss showed how there are plenty of numbers that cannot be describe as a division between too integers, and Gödel showed how there are true theorems that cannot be proven under certain axioms, and there is no getting away from that. But culturally this knowledge has not registered. We certainly behave as if we were ignorant of this. And consequently, our reaction towards the progress of communication technology is that there is a meat-free machine growing out of us that embodies the feral fear of the total Machine, rationality without a body. This is a purely ideological fear without scientific basis*. The ultimate expression of this is the Singularity. The Singularity can clearly be seen as a projection of this fear in a particularly pure way: the reason taking over the All. But we know [it's not possible](http://nautil.us/issue/49/the-absurd/chaos-makes-the-multiverse-unnecessary?utm_source=ticker&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=chaos-makes-the-multiverse-unnecessary) under existing knowledge of _mathematics_, so the only satisfactory explanation for this anxiety is that we think of the All as _already_ being rational, and this future materialization of that is a fetishist fullfilment of this metaphysics.


* that is has no scientific basis is almost a tautology, but it's worth pointing out that a teleology of the progress of science and technology is necessarily ideology, since teleology is forbidden under the scientific method.
