You might see these images and their obvious connection with esoteric and religious traditions, where representations of the same thing appear with great beauty, in the highest of artistic refinements and surrounded by an aura of awe. These ideas and these themes are treated with high reverence in the eschatology of all systems of beliefs, and this seems so far removed from programming that you might be wondering: what the hell has this to do with programming?

Well, _everything_. A core motif of all systems of belief is the magic power of the spoken and of the written word. For the ancient norse people, runes (that is, the written language) were magical by themselves. In the genesis, God speaks and the world is created as he says. Even Harry Potter does this, and light appears when he says so. _Lumos!_ (which, by the way, is latin for light) For the Summerians, the father god, Marduk, was the one that spoke the right words and could do magic by the force of his speech. Magic is creation, magic is what god does when he speaks, magic is setting order in the world by saying the right thing at the right time.

This is a brilliant idea, and the mistake people often do is to treat this as some superstitious mumbo jumbo. The exaggeration that religious traditions do of the power of speech is just an artistic hyperbole of the effective power of speech: in the social world, speech is certainly powerful, and can create or destroy order. Just think of the power a judge has, that by the written word can condemn or release a person. That is certainly powerful language.

This might be striking a serious cord on you. All this talk about judges and magic, what does it has to do with programming?

Well. Programming is speaking the right words so that order is created in the world. It is as close as we have come to actual, real world magic, and it would certainly be regarded as magic by the ancients, and as a confirmation of their ways of looking at the world. Imagine yourself popping up in 3rd century China with a magic box where lives a genie called Alexa that can listen to your commands and answer. Is that not magic?

But there are some deeper points to all this. The points are that:

- Programming is serious stuff. We know this. Equifax reminded us that of what happens when we don’t take it seriously. If we understand, as some of the ancients did, that we do hold an awesome amount of power, we necessarily will also immediately understand that we cannot be careless about what the consequences of using it are. Programming is giving shape to the world we inhabite and the people around us inhabite, and this is not going to stop being so: on the contrary. Understanding this is a call to take it seriously and rise above. We need to stop bickering about whether or not "functional programming has too much math". We are going fast to a world where our life support systems are going to depend on algorithms: we better hope the people writing those did the math properly. And it also happens that the people writing those algorithms are us.
- The ideas about the structure of the world are deeply embedded within us. The primordial aspect of the difference between one and zero as the two minimally necessary elements for holding information was known to the people that built dualistic beliefs systems such as the yin yang. The idea that the naturals can be constructed by recursion is also present in this images: you can see the yin yang breaking into four by the added circles, you can see this in the self reference of the hinduist images. I am not claiming that this people were trying to represent their knowledge about recursive types in these images, but one has to admit that at some intuitive level, this is present there. And the fact that this intuitions are so old and that so many people across the ages thought it was so important to preserve this images and multiply them is a testament to the fact that the mathematical building blocks and intuitions are really deeply embedded in our perceptive structures. And when you think about it, how could it be any other way? The simpler structures in nature manifest mathematical regularities all the time, this is well known for the golden ratio for example, and we are just like them, only a bit more complex. Mathematical regularities govern our world because physical systems are ruled by mathematical laws. There is nothing foreign about mathematics. Much like we are literally star dust, we are also mathematical objects.

I know that sounds a little unsettling. Nobody wants to feel that they are being told that they are an abstract object. Well, my point here is that we need to invert that intuition: it is not that we are abstract or objectified: rather that mathematics is not abstract of foreign. Everything in mathematics is a distillation of our intuition and our innermost structure. The fact that we came up with mathematics as a language is a very natural thing: we are just expressing the structures that we are made of. There is nothing more human than developing that language and getting familiar with it. There is no more natural language than mathematics.
