# Storytelling as the source of wealth

The capacity to create compelling stories is more important than money because stories are what mediates the acquisition of money. Money is one of the side effects of deploying powerful stories that people buy into: other forms of wealth and power also spring out of the fountainhead of stories, and it is the nature of the stories that they can in their very shape help steer the wealth into the preferred form. Stories that are aimed at attracting money will have different specifics than the ones aimed at attracting political power: however, at the level of storytelling, both forms of wealth are equivalent, in the sense that the capacity able to bring them forth is the same sort of potential.

Now, this argument is quite well known under the shape of the idea of the salesperson that can sell anything: the discourse of this particular person is powerful enough to create the sale. However critics can aim quite valid counterarguments to this: a salesperson dumping snake oil on some dupes is not a model that can really be scaled, it is an isolated scenario, and real acquisition of money or power through stories requires of material means. Well, that's the thing: a complete story is not simply a verbal or even visual telling of a narrative; a story weaves material and moral means into an integrated whole. Despite the focus on expression that the plastic arts took during the last century, in detriment of craft and technical skills (which were considered relegated to "engineers"), the fact remains that truly effective storytellers need to be masters of the relevant crafts pertinent to their story. Engineers have the capacity to bring forth powerful revolutions that do not stop at material change, but have gargantuan moral implications, and this revolutions are born of their imagination and work. This narrative arc, which is completely embedded in action and most often than not, not developed in any higher form of narrative format, is however a complete instantiation of the monomyth, the Hero's Journey; which means that moral action, technical work and articulated discourse are completely intertwined when it comes to fully fledged storytelling.
