The incompleteness theorem posits a clear problem to the capacity of rational discourse to comprehend reality. This is known. Mathematical systems that have been created so far or that can reasonably be conceived within the rules that we understand to play the mathematical game are limited to the fact that they will contain contradictions that make them incapable to account for all the true facts about themselves. The fact that the limitation of mathematical systems is self referential means something more: their limitation is not restricted only to their capacity to represent broader phenomena as a map, but it exists even without taking into account any broader context.

The natural reaction to the incompleteness theorem, declared of any particular axiomatic system, is to posit a system that accounts for the contradictions. We know already from the theorem itself that this is impossible _a priori_, but attempts at this escape route are nonetheless interesting because they illuminate the first step into acknowledging the broader problem that the incompleteness theorem posits. Trying to reach a _complete_ system by virtue of taken the incompleteness of a system into account in a broader one was a path that Gödel himself took, and he showed that this path leads nowhere: the way to account for the incompleteness of a system in a more encompassing one is to rule the undecidable theorems of the lower system as axiomatic facts of the upper one; this is partially effective, since it does actually close the loopholes that the lower system contained, but the upper system, by virtue of being also capable of self referentiality, is also found to contain undecidable statements. Moving further in this direction would allow to create more and more complicated systems that take successively more facts into account axiomatically, but this motion would keep on going forever, and the axioms of the final system would become infinite in number. Let's call this upward (or downward depending on interpretation, as we will see) movement the chain of realization, since each system is fully realized and made complete in the next, only to be found to be again incomplete, and in need of less abstraction.

This posits a problem. We do live in a reality that we experience as holding these mathematical descriptions (which, again, can be conceived as the most advanced form or discourse in general and rational discourse in particular), which means that, at least at an intuitive level, the framework of reality has to be capable of resolve the contradictions of any particular system it contains. This is because if reality itself were to be one of the systems that contain loopholes, it would be unstable. This is, of course, possible: my speculation does not contain an already made judgement about that; it does seem, however, unlikely, and at the very least, it would seem not be parsimonious with rational discourse, and consequently, hard to be used as a premise for rational judgement. There is another possibility that comes to mind, one that seems more akin the quality of the reality as experienced, and which relates strongly to the mythical intuitions of reality and thought as maya, that is, illusory imagistic representation that is by its very nature incomplete. The idea would be that, in order for reality to contain all possible systems without a space for undecidability, we can posit a system which stands at the end and possibly beyond the chain of realization, in the same way as the Aleph One cardinality stands at the end and beyond the Aleph Null infinite cardinality. This system, in principle impossible to describe with finite resources (or even infinite of certain lower cardinalities) would then be posited (as a conjecture) able to contain all other, lower resolution and less realized systems, but at a terrible price: it would in turn mean that the system at the end of the realization chain will have an uncountably infinite amount of actions. If reality were to be describable in such terms, that would also mean that the nature of reality will by definition elude encompassing within any higher level abstraction, as the axioms don't relate to each other, and the structure of reality would be completely atomized and accidental. This is however only one interpretation of what such system would look like, a highly speculative one: it would be possible to posit either higher order structures for the axioms themselves (hint here: what are the relations and hierarchies within the axioms? what is the discipline that covers this field of inquiry?) or rather a different fact, which would be that possibly the integration of reality would have to be accounted for from the action that operates on the axioms in the creation of theorems.

Those paths for speculation are probably fruitful, but the idea that captures me the most in here is: what lies at the end of the chain of realization? What can be said about that which lies at that end, and what relation, if any, it has with the idea of the ultimate, experiential and all encompassing unity that we call reality, and our intuition that it has to be in at least some sense complete, and contradiction-free.
