# A geometrical interpretation of quantum field theories at the metaphor level

The problem I will try to address is not the theories themselves. The mathematics of them escape me entirely, and elaborating a specific theory with predictions based on this interpretation is out of my reach for the time being. What I would like to address, instead, is the metaphors used to understand the phenomena in quantum field theory, and the possibility of representing them in a different way that resolves many of the purposed "paradoxes" in it.

- There are no particles. All phenomenon that can be measured and have thus far been called particles are to be interpreted as wave-like phenomena that is at the position and time of measure passing a threshold of disturbance that allows them to be detected.
- All fields are real spatial dimensions. The way they are interweaved is the subject-matter of the theory. The fields' existence _defines_ the spatial dimensions as such.
- Time is in no way different to any other dimension. "Stationary waves" such as electrons in an atom are to be interpreted as 4 dimensional segments of a 5 dimensional wave phenomenon (maybe higher dimensional even). The difference with string theory on this level is that the wave is not isolated (thus it does not make sense that the fifth dimension is compact).
- The wave function has physical reality. The fact that the point at which the interaction between waves is measurable is found around an statistical distribution based on the wave function and that particular position cannot be predicted with current known methods is just a side effect of the fact that under the interaction threshold (which would have to be a constant which value is close the minimum energy level of a photon) we cannot measure the other waves present. The mere fact that the shape of the distribution can be changed by changing the environment proves that there is an interaction happening below the threshold level.
- Velocity might be an elementary dimension and our perceived physical dimensions + time might be derivative ones. As usual, this might be dual. If velocity is the proper dimension, then changing velocity and consequently the frame of reference is moving through a higher dimension proper. Gravitational acceleration would mean that this dimension is what really permeates the relationship between "space" and "time" dimensions, for acceleration and gravity, which could be seen in this way as a single phenomenon. 

A much-seeked consequence of a geometrical approach to quantum field theory is that it rules out causal dynamics and instead describes the universe as a cohesive higher dimensional object where there are no local phenomena. Since the universe is higher dimensional, finding the specific sources of perturbations in the fields can be particularly tricky, since folding of the dimensions we currently have access to in higher dimensions might prevent us for detecting the connections. On the other hand, it points out that any description of quantum mechanics that tries to contemplate phenomenon in isolation as happening to point-like particles is bound to fail, since there is really no particle traveling through time and space, but rather a static wave in higher dimensions with boundaries where it gets distorted into other waves, much like the idea of the universal wave function involved in the many-worlds intepretation, but of course without any need for many-worlds since the entire universe is a solid, continuous object without any kind of path divergence and the apparent randomness in quantum interactions is just due to the threshold for detection.
