# Ideas for taking universality seriously: extended requirements for organizations that don’t want to engage in discrimination based on identity or circumstance

- If the company can hire remotely, then failing to do so amounts to geography-based discrimination.
- If the job does not require the employee to be authorized by the state to perform it based on academic qualifications (i.e. as medicine does), then requiring academic training amounts to background-based discrimination, and possibly economic-based discrimination (for countries where higher education is not free).
- If the product can benefit any specific segment of the population, not making it accessible to that segment is discrimination. This includes providing accessibility to e-commerce websites, to government agencies, educational resources, etc.
- If the intellectual property of a company is not crucial to its economical sustainability, then not releasing it under a creative commons or public domain license of some sort is income-based discrimination. Value in the form of information that is generated in some part of society that can be made available to the whole of society must be made available free of charge and with a licensing model that does not criminalize its consumption or sharing.
- If the product or service of a company can be provided cross-borders without technical or legal impediments, it must be done so, otherwise it constitutes geography-based discrimination. If the company or government providing such services or product has the resources to also translate it to languages of people that could use the product or service, it is also obligated to do so, since otherwise it would incur in language-based discrimination.
- In general, if a product or service can be consumed by people that do not speak the same language and the organization backing that product or service has the resources to provide complete translated versions of such product or service, it is obliged to do so.
- If the government of a country violates human rights, in particular with regard to discrimination, it is the obligation of any organization operating under such government to actively try to overcome that discrimination. For example, an organization operating in a country where sexual freedom is not guaranteed must find ways to make their product or service accessible to all people, disregarding of sexual orientation, and take extra measures to protect the consumers and employees whose rights the government does not protect.
- If a job does not require fluidity in some particular language, then requiring fluidity in it amounts to language-based discrimination.
- If real names are not required for using a particular service, then requiring them forces people to adopt fixed external identities that might discourage people from using it. Requiring real names and pictures should be considered a last resort, and doing so without need can result in passive discrimination.
